
=head1 NAME

OODoc::Text::SubSection - collects the text of one subsection within a section


=head1 INHERITANCE

 OODoc::Text::SubSection
   is a OODoc::Text::Structure
   is a OODoc::Text
   is a OODoc::Object


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my $section = $subsection->section;
 my $chapter = $subsection->chapter;


=head1 DESCRIPTION

A subsection (or head3) is the third level of refining document
hierarchies.  A subsection must be a part of a section, which is
part of a chapter.


=head1 OVERLOADED


overload: B<'""' (stringification)>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<'==' and '!='>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<'cmp' (string comparison)>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"OVERLOADED">

=back


=head1 METHODS


=head2 Initiation


$obj-E<gt>B<emptyExtension>(CONTAINER)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Initiation">

=back

OODoc::Text::SubSection-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option       Defined in       Default   
 container    OODoc::Text      <section> 
 description  OODoc::Text      ''        
 level        OODoc::Text::Structure  3         
 linenr       OODoc::Text      <required>
 name         OODoc::Text      C<undef>  
 section                       <required>
 type         OODoc::Text      <required>

. container OBJECT

. description STRING

. level INTEGER

. linenr INTEGER

. name STRING

. section OBJECT

=over 4

The section in which this sub-section lives.

=back

. type STRING

=back

=head2 Attributes


$obj-E<gt>B<container>([OBJECT])

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<description>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<level>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<niceName>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<type>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Attributes">

=back

=head2 Location


$obj-E<gt>B<manual>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Location">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<path>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Location">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<unique>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Location">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<where>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Location">

=back

=head2 Collected


$obj-E<gt>B<all>(METHOD, PARAMETERS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Collected">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<example>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Collected">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<examples>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Collected">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<extends>([OBJECT])

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Collected">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<findDescriptionObject>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Collected">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<openDescription>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Collected">

=back

=head2 Subroutines


$obj-E<gt>B<addSubroutine>(OBJECTS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Subroutines">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<setSubroutines>(ARRAY)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Subroutines">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<subroutine>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Subroutines">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<subroutines>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Subroutines">

=back

=head2 Commonly used functions


$obj-E<gt>B<filenameToPackage>(FILENAME)

OODoc::Text::SubSection-E<gt>B<filenameToPackage>(FILENAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Commonly used functions">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<mkdirhier>(DIRECTORY)

OODoc::Text::SubSection-E<gt>B<mkdirhier>(DIRECTORY)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Commonly used functions">

=back

=head2 Manual Repository


$obj-E<gt>B<addManual>(MANUAL)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<mainManual>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<manuals>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<manualsForPackage>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<packageNames>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

=head2 Container


$obj-E<gt>B<chapter>

=over 4

Returns the chapter object for this subsection.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<section>

=over 4

Returns the section object for this subsection.

=back



=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<Error:> manual definition requires manual object

A call to L<addManual()|OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository"> expects a new manual object (a L<OODoc::Manual|OODoc::Manual>),
however an incompatible thing was passed.  Usually, intended was a call
to L<manualsForPackage()|OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository"> or L<mainManual()|OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">.






=head1 REFERENCES

See the OODoc website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/oodoc/> for more details.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Module version 0.04.
Written by Mark Overmeer (mark@overmeer.net).  See the ChangeLog for
other contributors.

Copyright (c) 2003 by the author(s). All rights reserved.  This program
is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
same terms as Perl itself.


