=head1 NAME

OODoc::Format::Pod3 - Produce POD pages using OODoc::Template

=head1 INHERITANCE

 OODoc::Format::Pod3
   is a OODoc::Format::Pod
   is a OODoc::Format
   is a OODoc::Object

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my $doc = OODoc->new(...);
 $doc->create
   ( 'pod3'   # or 'OODoc::Format::Pod3'
   , format_options => [show_examples => 'NO']
   );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Create manual pages in the POD syntax, using the L<OODoc::Template|OODoc::Template>
template system.

=head1 OVERLOADED

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

OODoc::Format::Pod3-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"METHODS">

=back

=head2 Inheritance knowledge

$obj-E<gt>B<extends>([OBJECT])

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Inheritance knowledge">

=back

=head2 Attributes

$obj-E<gt>B<manifest>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<project>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<version>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<workdir>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Attributes">

=back

=head2 Page generation

$obj-E<gt>B<cleanup>(MANUAL, STRING)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<cleanupPOD>(IN, OUT)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format::Pod/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<createManual>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option        --Defined in     --Default
 append          OODoc::Format::Pod  ''
 format_options  OODoc::Format    []
 manual          OODoc::Format    <required>
 project         OODoc::Format    <required>
 template                         <in code>

. append => STRING|CODE

. format_options => ARRAY

. manual => MANUAL

. project => STRING

. template => FILENAME

=over 4

The default template is included in the DATA segment of
L<OODoc::Format::Pod3|OODoc::Format::Pod3>.  You may start your own template
by copying it to a file.

=back

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<createOtherPages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<formatManual>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format::Pod/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<link>(MANUAL, OBJECT, [TEXT])

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format::Pod/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<removeMarkup>(STRING)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format::Pod/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<showChapter>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<showChapterIndex>(FILE, CHAPTER, INDENT)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format::Pod/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<showExamples>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<showOptionExpand>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<showOptionTable>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<showOptionUse>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<showOptionalChapter>(NAME, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<showOptions>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<showRequiredChapter>(NAME, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<showStructureExpanded>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<showStructureRefer>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<showSubroutine>((@))

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<showSubroutineDescription>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<showSubroutineName>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<showSubroutineUse>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<showSubroutines>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format/"Page generation">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<writeTable>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Format::Pod/"Page generation">

=back

=head2 Commonly used functions

$obj-E<gt>B<filenameToPackage>(FILENAME)

OODoc::Format::Pod3-E<gt>B<filenameToPackage>(FILENAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Commonly used functions">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<mkdirhier>(DIRECTORY)

OODoc::Format::Pod3-E<gt>B<mkdirhier>(DIRECTORY)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Commonly used functions">

=back

=head2 Manual Repository

$obj-E<gt>B<addManual>(MANUAL)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<mainManual>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<manual>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<manuals>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<manualsForPackage>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<packageNames>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

=head2 Template processing

=head1 DETAILS

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error: cannot read prelimary pod from $infn: $!

=over 4

=back

Error: cannot write final pod to $outfn: $!

=over 4

=back

Error: formatter does not know the version.

=over 4

=back

Error: formatter has no project name.

=over 4

A formatter was created without a name specified for the project at
hand.  This should be passed with L<new(project)|OODoc::Format/"METHODS">.

=back

Error: manual definition requires manual object

=over 4

A call to L<addManual()|OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository"> expects a new manual object (a L<OODoc::Manual|OODoc::Manual>),
however an incompatible thing was passed.  Usually, intended was a call
to L<manualsForPackage()|OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository"> or L<mainManual()|OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">.

=back

Warning: missing required chapter $name in $manual

=over 4

=back

Error: no directory to put pod manual for $name in

=over 4

=back

Error: no package name for pod production

=over 4

=back

Error: no working directory specified.

=over 4

The formatter has to know where the output can be written.  This
directory must be provided via L<new(workdir)|OODoc::Format/"METHODS">, but was not specified.

=back

Warning: unknown subroutine type $type for $name in $manual

=over 4

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of OODoc distribution version 1.03,
built on March 14, 2008. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/oodoc/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2003-2008 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

