
=head1 NAME

OODoc::Text::Chapter - collects the information of one chapter


=head1 INHERITANCE

 OODoc::Text::Chapter
   is a OODoc::Text::Structure
   is a OODoc::Text
   is a OODoc::Object


=head1 SYNOPSIS



=head1 DESCRIPTION



=head1 OVERLOADED


overload: B<'""' (stringification)>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<'==' and '!='>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<'cmp' (string comparison)>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"OVERLOADED">

=back


=head1 METHODS


=head2 Constructors


$obj-E<gt>B<emptyExtension>(CONTAINER)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Constructors">

=back

OODoc::Text::Chapter-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option       Defined in       Default                                      
 container    L<OODoc::Text>   L<new(manual)|OODoc::Text::Chapter/"METHODS">
 description  L<OODoc::Text>   C<''>                                        
 level        L<OODoc::Text::Structure>  C<1>                                         
 linenr       L<OODoc::Text>   <required>                                   
 manual                        undef                                        
 name         L<OODoc::Text>   undef                                        
 type         L<OODoc::Text>   C<'Chapter'>                                 

. container OBJECT

. description STRING

. level INTEGER

. linenr INTEGER

. manual OBJECT

=over 4

The manual in which this chapter is described.

=back

. name STRING

. type STRING

=back

=head2 Inheritance knowledge


$obj-E<gt>B<extends>([OBJECT])

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Inheritance knowledge">

=back

=head2 Attributes


$obj-E<gt>B<container>([OBJECT])

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<description>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<level>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<niceName>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<type>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Attributes">

=back

=head2 Location


$obj-E<gt>B<findEntry>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Location">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<manual>([NAME])

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Location">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<path>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Location">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<unique>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Location">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<where>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Location">

=back

=head2 Collected


$obj-E<gt>B<all>(METHOD, PARAMETERS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Collected">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<example>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Collected">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<examples>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Collected">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<findDescriptionObject>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Collected">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isEmpty>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Collected">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<openDescription>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Collected">

=back

=head2 Subroutines


$obj-E<gt>B<addSubroutine>(OBJECTS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Subroutines">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<setSubroutines>(ARRAY)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Subroutines">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<subroutine>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Subroutines">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<subroutines>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Subroutines">

=back

=head2 Commonly used functions


$obj-E<gt>B<filenameToPackage>(FILENAME)

OODoc::Text::Chapter-E<gt>B<filenameToPackage>(FILENAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Commonly used functions">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<mkdirhier>(DIRECTORY)

OODoc::Text::Chapter-E<gt>B<mkdirhier>(DIRECTORY)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Commonly used functions">

=back

=head2 Manual Repository


$obj-E<gt>B<addManual>(MANUAL)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<mainManual>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<manuals>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<manualsForPackage>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<packageNames>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

=head2 Sections

A chapters consists of a list of sections, which may contain subsections.

$obj-E<gt>B<section>(NAME|OBJECT)

=over 4

With a NAME, the section within this chapter with that name is
returned.  With an OBJECT (which must be a L<OODoc::Text::Section|OODoc::Text::Section>),
a new section is added to the end of the list.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<sections>([SECTIONS])

=over 4

Returns a list of all sections in this chapter.

=back



=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<Error:> manual definition requires manual object

A call to L<addManual()|OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository"> expects a new manual object (a L<OODoc::Manual|OODoc::Manual>),
however an incompatible thing was passed.  Usually, intended was a call
to L<manualsForPackage()|OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository"> or L<mainManual()|OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">.






=head1 REFERENCES

See the OODoc website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/oodoc/> for more details.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Module version 0.90.
Written by Mark Overmeer (mark@overmeer.net).  See the ChangeLog for
other contributors.

Copyright (c) 2003 by the author(s). All rights reserved.  This program
is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
same terms as Perl itself.


