
=head1 NAME

OODoc::Text::Diagnostic - one explanation of a problem report


=head1 INHERITANCE

 OODoc::Text::Diagnostic
   is an OODoc::Text
   is an OODoc::Object


=head1 SYNOPSIS



=head1 DESCRIPTION

Each L<OODoc::Text::Subroutine|OODoc::Text::Subroutine> can have a list of warning and 
error messages, which are each captured in a separate object as described
in this manual page.


=head1 OVERLOADED


overload: B<'""' (stringification)>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<'==' and '!='>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<'cmp' (string comparison)>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"OVERLOADED">

=back


=head1 METHODS


=head2 Constructors


OODoc::Text::Diagnostic-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

S<< Option     --Defined in     --Default >>
S<< container    L<OODoc::Text>   L<new(subroutine)|OODoc::Text::Diagnostic/"METHODS"> >>
S<< description  L<OODoc::Text>   '' >>
S<< linenr       L<OODoc::Text>   <required> >>
S<< name         L<OODoc::Text>   undef >>
S<< subroutine                    <required> >>
S<< type         L<OODoc::Text>   'Diagnostic' >>

. container OBJECT

. description STRING

. linenr INTEGER

. name STRING

. subroutine OBJECT

=over 4

The subroutine in which this option lives.

=back

. type STRING

=back

=head2 Inheritance knowledge


$obj-E<gt>B<extends>([OBJECT])

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Inheritance knowledge">

=back

=head2 Attributes


$obj-E<gt>B<container>([OBJECT])

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<description>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<subroutine>

=over 4

Returns the subroutine object for this option.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<type>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Attributes">

=back

=head2 Location


$obj-E<gt>B<manual>([NAME])

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Location">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<unique>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Location">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<where>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Location">

=back

=head2 Collected


$obj-E<gt>B<example>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Collected">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<examples>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Collected">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<findDescriptionObject>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Collected">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<openDescription>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Collected">

=back

=head2 Commonly used functions


$obj-E<gt>B<filenameToPackage>(FILENAME)

OODoc::Text::Diagnostic-E<gt>B<filenameToPackage>(FILENAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Commonly used functions">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<mkdirhier>(DIRECTORY)

OODoc::Text::Diagnostic-E<gt>B<mkdirhier>(DIRECTORY)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Commonly used functions">

=back

=head2 Manual Repository


$obj-E<gt>B<addManual>(MANUAL)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<mainManual>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<manuals>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<manualsForPackage>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<packageNames>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back




=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<Error:> manual definition requires manual object

A call to L<addManual()|OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository"> expects a new manual object (a L<OODoc::Manual|OODoc::Manual>),
however an incompatible thing was passed.  Usually, intended was a call
to L<manualsForPackage()|OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository"> or L<mainManual()|OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">.






=head1 REFERENCES

See the OODoc website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/oodoc/> for more details.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Module version 0.94.
Written by Mark Overmeer (mark@overmeer.net).  See the ChangeLog for
other contributors.

Copyright (c) 2003-2006 by the author(s). All rights reserved.  This program
is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
same terms as Perl itself.


