
=head1 NAME

OODoc - object oriented production of code related documentation


=head1 INHERITANCE

 OODoc
   is an OODoc::Object


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use OODoc;
 my $doc = OODoc->new(distribution => 'My Name', version => '0.02');
 $doc->processFiles(workdir => $dest);
 $doc->prepare;
 $doc->create('pod', workdir => $dest);
 $doc->create('html', workdir => '/tmp/html');


=head1 DESCRIPTION

OODoc stands for "Object Oriented Documentation": to produce manual-pages
in HTML or the usual man-page UNIX format, describing Perl programs.  The
OO part refers to two things: this module simplifies writing documentation
for Object Oriented programs, and at the same time, it is Object Oriented
itself: easily extensible.

OODoc has been used for small and for very large modules.  It can also
be used to integrate manual-pages from many modules into one homogeneous
set.

The documentation syntax can be changed, by configuring the parser
or adding a new one.  The L<OODoc::Parser::Markov|OODoc::Parser::Markov> parser understands POD
and has additional logical markup tags.  See L<OODoc::Parser|OODoc::Parser> about what
each parser needs to support.

The output is produced by formatters.  The current implementation contains
two POD formatters and one HTML formatter.  See L<OODoc::Format|OODoc::Format>.

Do not forget to read the L<DETAILS> section, later on this manual-page to
get started.  Please contribute ideas.  Have a look at the main website
of this project at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/oodoc/>.  That is also an
example of the produced output.


=head1 OVERLOADED



=head1 METHODS


=head2 Constructors


OODoc-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

S<< Option      --Defined in     --Default >>
S<< distribution                   <required> >>
S<< project                        <distribution> >>
S<< verbose                        0 >>
S<< version                        <from version or VERSION file> >>

. distribution STRING

=over 4

The name of the package, as released on CPAN.

=back

. project STRING

=over 4

A short description of the distribution, as will be shown on many places
in the produced manual pages and code.  You can use the main package name,
or something which is nicer to read.

=back

. verbose INTEGER

=over 4

Verbosity during the process.  The higher the number, the more information
will be presented (current useful maximum is 4).

=back

. version STRING

=over 4

The version number as automatically included in all packages after
each package statement and on many places in the documentation. By
default the current directory is searched for a file named C<version>
or C<VERSION> which contains a number.

=back

=back

=head2 Inheritance knowledge


$obj-E<gt>B<extends>([OBJECT])

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Inheritance knowledge">

=back

=head2 Attributes


$obj-E<gt>B<distribution>

=over 4

Returns the nice name for the distribution.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<project>

=over 4

Returns the general project description, by default the distribution name.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<version>

=over 4

Returns the version string for the distribution.

=back

=head2 Parser


$obj-E<gt>B<processFiles>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

S<< Option      --Defined in     --Default >>
S<< distribution                   <from main OODoc object> >>
S<< manifest                       <source/>'MANIFEST' >>
S<< parser                         L<OODoc::Parser::Markov|OODoc::Parser::Markov> >>
S<< select                         qr/\.(pod|pm)$/ >>
S<< source                         C<'.'> >>
S<< verbose                        <from object> >>
S<< version                        <from source directory or OODoc object> >>
S<< workdir                        <required> >>

. distribution NAME

=over 4

Useful when more than one distribution is merged into one set of
documentation.

=back

. manifest FILENAME

=over 4

The manifest file lists all files which belong to this distribution: packages,
pods, tests, etc. before the new pod files are created.

=back

. parser CLASS|OBJECT

=over 4

The parser CLASS or OBJECT to be used to process the pages.

=back

. select ARRAY|REGEX|CODE

=over 4

The files which contain documentation to be processed.  You can provide
a list of filenames as array reference, a REGEX which is used to select
names from the manifest file, or a CODE reference which is used to
select elements from the manifest (filename passed as first argument).
Is your pod real pod or should it also be passed through the parser?

=back

. source DIRECTORY

=over 4

The location where the files are located.  This is useful when you collect
the documentation of other distributions into the main one.  Usually in
combination with an undefined value for C<workdir>.

=back

. verbose INTEGER

=over 4

Tell more about each stage of the processing.  The higher the number,
the more information you will get.

=back

. version STRING

=over 4

The version of the distribution.  If not specified, the C<source>
directory is scanned for a file named C<version> or C<VERSION>. The
content is used as version value.  If these do not exist, then the
main OODoc object needs to provide the version.

To make C<Makefile.PL> option C<VERSION_FROM> to work with this
seperate version file, that line should contain C<$VERSION = >.

=back

. workdir DIRECTORY

=over 4

Specify the directory where the stripped pm-files and the pod files
will be written to.  Probably the whole distribution is collected on
that spot.

If you do not want to create a distribution, you may
specify C<undef> (still: you have to specify the option).  In this
case, only the documentation in the files is consumed, and no files
created.

=back

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<selectFiles>(WHICH, LIST)

=over 4

Returns two array references: the first with files to process, and the second
with files which do not need to be processed.  WHICH comes from
L<processFiles(select)|OODoc/"Parser"> and the LIST are files from a manifest.

=back

=head2 Preparation


$obj-E<gt>B<expandManuals>

=over 4

Take all manuals, and fill them with the info all the super classes.  Some
of this data may actually be used when formatting the manual into pages.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<getPackageRelations>

=over 4

Compile all files which contain packages, and then try to find-out
how they are related.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<prepare>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

Add information to the documentation tree about inheritance relationships
of the packages.  C<prepare> must be called between L<processFiles()|OODoc/"Parser">
and L<create()|OODoc/"Formatter">.

S<< Option --Defined in--Default >>
S<< verbose              <from object> >>

. verbose INTEGER

=back

=head2 Formatter


$obj-E<gt>B<create>(NAME|CLASS|OBJECT, OPTIONS)

=over 4

Create a manual for the set of manuals read so far.  The manuals are
produced by different formatters which produce one page at a time.
Returned is the formatter which is used: it may contain useful information
for you.

The first, optional argument specifies the type of pages to be produced.
This can be either a predefined NAME (currently available are C<pod>
and C<html> representing L<OODoc::Format::Pod|OODoc::Format::Pod> and L<OODoc::Format::Html|OODoc::Format::Html>
respectively), the name of a CLASS which needs to be instantiated,
or an instantiated formatter.

S<< Option         --Defined in     --Default >>
S<< append                            C<undef> >>
S<< format_options                    [] >>
S<< manifest                          <workdir>/MANIFEST >>
S<< manual_format                     [] >>
S<< manual_template                   C<undef> >>
S<< other_files                       C<undef> >>
S<< process_files                     <formatter dependent> >>
S<< select                            C<undef> >>
S<< verbose                           0 >>
S<< workdir                           <required> >>

. append STRING|CODE

=over 4

The value is passed on to L<OODoc::Format::createManual(append)|OODoc::Format/"Page generation">,
but the behavior is formatter dependent.

=back

. format_options ARRAY

=over 4

Formatter dependent initialization options.  See the documentation of
the formatter which will be used for the possible values.

=back

. manifest FILENAME|undef

=over 4

The names of the produced files are appended to this file.  When undef
is given, no file will be written for this.

=back

. manual_format ARRAY

=over 4

Options passed to L<OODoc::Format::createManual(format_options)|OODoc::Format/"Page generation"> when
a manual page has to be produced.  See the applicable formatter
manual page for the possible flags and values.

=back

. manual_template LOCATION

=over 4

Passed to L<OODoc::Format::createManual(template)|OODoc::Format/"Page generation">, and defines the
location of the set of pages which has to be created for each manual
page.  Some formatters do not support templates and the valid values
are formatter dependent.

=back

. other_files DIRECTORY

=over 4

Other files which have to be copied
passed to L<OODoc::Format::createOtherPages(source)|OODoc::Format/"Page generation">.

=back

. process_files REGEXP

=over 4

Selects the files which are to be processed for special markup information.
Other files, like image files, will be simply copied.  The value will be
passed to L<OODoc::Format::createOtherPages(process)|OODoc::Format/"Page generation">.

=back

. select CODE|REGEXP

=over 4

Produce only the indicated manuals, which is useful in case of merging
manuals from different distributions.  When a REGEXP is provided, it
will be checked against the manual name.  The CODE reference will be
called with a manual as only argument.

=back

. verbose INTEGER

=over 4

Debug level, the higher the number, the more details about the process
you will have.

=back

. workdir DIRECTORY

=over 4

The directory where the output is going to.

=back

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<stats>

=over 4

Returns a string which contains some statistics about the whole parsed
document set.

=back

=head2 Commonly used functions


$obj-E<gt>B<filenameToPackage>(FILENAME)

OODoc-E<gt>B<filenameToPackage>(FILENAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Commonly used functions">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<mkdirhier>(DIRECTORY)

OODoc-E<gt>B<mkdirhier>(DIRECTORY)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Commonly used functions">

=back

=head2 Manual Repository


$obj-E<gt>B<addManual>(MANUAL)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<mainManual>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<manual>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<manuals>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<manualsForPackage>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<packageNames>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">

=back




=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<Error:> Cannot compile $parser class

The $parser class does not exist or produces compiler errors.

I<Error:> Cannot read version from file $fn: $!


I<Error:> Parser $parser could not be instantiated

Something went wrong while starting the parser object.  Probably there is
an other error message which will tell you the exact cause.

I<Error:> cannot copy distribution file $fn to $dest: $!

For some reason, a plain file from can not be copied from your source
tree to the location where the distribution is made.

I<Error:> formatter $name has compilation errors: $@

The formatter which is specified does not compile, so can not be used.

I<Error:> manual definition requires manual object

A call to L<addManual()|OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository"> expects a new manual object (a L<OODoc::Manual|OODoc::Manual>),
however an incompatible thing was passed.  Usually, intended was a call
to L<manualsForPackage()|OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository"> or L<mainManual()|OODoc::Object/"Manual Repository">.

I<Warning:> no file $fn to include in the distribution

Probably your MANIFEST file lists this file which does not exist.  The file
will be skipped for now, but may cause problems later on.

I<Error:> no version specified for distribution "$name"

Version information will be added to all packages and all manual
pages.  You need to specify a version and be sure that it changes
with each release, or create a file named C<version> or C<VERSION>
which contains that data.

I<Error:> problems compiling $code for package $name: $@

Syntax error in your code, or a problem caused by stripping the file.
You can run your test-scripts before the files get stripped as long
as you do not use C<make test>, because that will try to produce
manual-pages as well...

I<Error:> requires a directory to write the distribution to

You have to give a value to C<workdir>, which may be C<undef>.  This
option is enforced to avoid the accidental omission of the parameter.

When processing the manifest file, some files must be copied directly
to a temporary directory.  The packages are first stripped from
their pseudo doc, and then written to the same directory.  That
directory will be the place where C<make dist> is run later.

I<Error:> requires a directory to write the manuals to

You have to give a value to C<workdir>, which will be used as top directory
for the produced output.  It does not matter whether there is already some
stuff in that directory.

I<Error:> the destribution must be specified


I<Error:> there is no version defined for the source files

Each manual will need a version number.  There are various ways to
specify one.  For instance, create a file named C<version> or C<VERSION>
in the top source directory of your distribution, or specify a version
as argument to L<OODoc::new()|OODoc/"METHODS"> or L<OODoc::processFiles()|OODoc/"Parser">.

I<Error:> use regex, code reference or array for file selection

The L<processFiles(select)|OODoc/"Parser"> option is not understood.  You may specify
an ARRAY, regular expression, or a code reference.


=head1 DETAILS


=head2 Why use OODoc in stead of POD

POD (Perl's standard Plain Old Document format) has a very simple
syntax.  POD is very simple to learn, and the produced manual pages
look like normal Unix manual pages.  However, when you start writing
larger programs, you start seeing the weaker sides of POD.

One of the main problems with POD is that is using a visual markup
style: you specify information by how it must be presented to the
viewer.  This in contrast with logical markup where you specify the
information more abstract, and a visual representation is created by
translation.  For instance in HTML defines a C<I > tag (visual markup
italic) and C<EM> (logical markup emphasis, which will usually show
as italic).

The main disadvantage of visual markup is lost information: the
formatter of the manual page can not help the author of the documentation
to produce more consistent manual pages.  This is not a problem for small
distributions, but is much more needed when programs grow larger.

=head2 How does OODoc work

Like with POD, you simply mix your documentation with your code.  When
the module is distributed, this information is stripped from the files
by a I<parser>, and translated into an object tree.  This tree is then
optimized: items combined, reorganized, etc, to collect all information
required to produce useable manual pages.  Then, a I<formatter> is called
to generate the manual pages.

=head3 The parser

The parser reads the package files, and (by default) strip them from all
documentation.  The stripped files are written to a temporary directory
which is used to create the module distribution.

It is possible to use more than one parser for your documentation.  On
this moment, there is only one parser implemented: the Markov parser,
named after the author.  But you can add your own parser, if you want to. 
Within one distribution, different files can be parsed by different parsers.

The parser produces an object tree, which is a structured representation of
the documentation.  The tree is parser independent, and organized by
manual page.

=head3 Collecting relations

The second phase of the manual page generation process figures out the
relations between the manual pages.  It collects inheritance relations
and other organizational information which is to be used by the
manual page generators.

=head3 The formatter

The final phase can be called more than once: based on the same object
tree, documents can be produced in various formats.  The initial
implementation produces POD and HTML.

=head2 Getting Started from scratch

To use OODoc, you need to create a scripts which helps you producing
the distribution of your module.  The simpest script look like this:

 use OODoc;
 my $dist = '/tmp/abc';
 my $doc  = OODoc->new
  ( distribution => 'E-mail handling'
  , version       => '0.01'
  );

 $doc->processFiles(workdir => $dist);  # parsing
 $doc->prepare;                         # collecting
 $doc->create('pod', workdir => $dist); # formatting to POD

The default parser will be used to process the files, see
L<OODoc::Parser::Markov|OODoc::Parser::Markov> for its syntax.  The formatter is described
in L<OODoc::Format::Pod|OODoc::Format::Pod>.  Once you have this working, you may decide
to add options to the calls to adapt the result more to your own taste.

=head2 Getting Started by Cloning

A much easier way to start, is to simply pick one of the examples
which are distributed with OODoc.  They come in three sizes: for a
small module (mimetypes and orl), an average sized set-up (for OODoc
itself), and a huge one (mailbox, over 140 packages).

All examples are written by the same person, and therefore follow the
same set-up.  Copy the files C<mkdoc>, C<mkdist> and C<MANIFEST.extra>
plus the directory C<html> to the top directory of your distribution.
Edit all the files, to contain the name of your module.

It expects a C<MANIFEST> file to be present, like standard for Perl
modules.  That file lists your own code, pod and additional files
which need to be included in the release.  OODoc will extend this
file with produced POD files.

The demo-scripts use a C<version> file, which contains something like
C<< $VERSION = 0.1 >>.  This is not required: you can specify to
take a version from any file, in the traditional Perl way.  However,
when you glue multiple modules together into one big HTML documentation
website (see the mailbox example), then this separate file simplifies
the production script.

To test the document production, use C<./mkdoc 1>  (C<1> = verbose)
The output can be found in the specified C<workdir>.  To see them:
try (on UNIX/Linux)  C<<pod2man xyz.pod | man -l - >>

To get a prepared distribution, use C<./mkdist 1>.  This will first
produce all documentation, and then run C<make test> and C<make dist>.
It generates two distributions: the C<module-version.tar.gz> which
can be uploaded to CPAN, and the C<module-version-raw.tar.gz> which
is for yourself.  The latter contains the whole setup which is used
to generate the distribution, so the unprocessed files!





=head1 REFERENCES

See the OODoc website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/oodoc/> for more details.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Module version 0.94.
Written by Mark Overmeer (mark@overmeer.net).  See the ChangeLog for
other contributors.

Copyright (c) 2003-2006 by the author(s). All rights reserved.  This program
is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
same terms as Perl itself.


